doc: add tutorial on how to increase the UOS disk size (#2805)
projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor: doc/tutorials/increase-uos-disk-size.rst

.. _Increase UOS disk size:

Increasing the User OS disk size
################################

This document builds on the :ref:`getting_started` and assumes you already have
a system with ACRN installed and running correctly. The size of the pre-built

> Clear Linux User OS (UOS) virtual disk is typically of 8GB. This may not be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clear Linux User OS (UOS) virtual disk is typically only 8GB and this may not be
```

> sufficient and this guide explains in a few steps how to increase the size of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sufficient for some applications. This guide explains a simple few steps to increase the size of
```

that virtual disk.

This document is largely inspired from Clear Linux's `Increase virtual disk size
of a Clear Linux* OS image <https://clearlinux.org/documentation/clear-linux/
guides/maintenance/increase-virtual-disk-size>`_ tutorial. The process can be

> broken down in three steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
broken down into three steps:
```

> 1. Increase the virtual disk size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Increase the virtual disk size defined in ``uos.img``
```

Author: I'm having mixed feelings about your suggestion here... the disk size isn't strictly defined in the `uos.img`, the file has a given size and contains partition that fill that space. How about the following instead?
```suggestion
1. Increase the virtual disk (``uos.img``) size
```

#. Resize the ``rootfs`` partition
#. Resize the filesystem

Increase the virtual disk size
******************************

.. note::

>    This step **must** be performed while the User OS (UOS) is powered off.

Reviewer: How do you "power off" the UOS?

Author: I use `poweroff` in the UOS shell. I think it's also possible to use `acrnctl` in the SOS but I've never played with that.

Reviewer: I was thinking you'd add this to the documentation, but maybe it's obvious to the trained user :)

As an example, let us add 10GB of storage to our virtual disk image called
``uos.img``.

.. code-block:: none

>    $ qemu-img resize -f raw uos.img +10G

Reviewer: Is the qemu-img tool guaranteed to be installed, or do we need to tell how to install it?

Author: Ah no, good catch. Assuming a Clear Linux dev system, it can be installed with `sudo swupd bundle-add clr-installer`. I will update this PR.

.. note::

   Replace ``uos.img`` by the actual name of your virtual disk file if you
   deviated from the :ref:`getting_started`.

.. note::

   You can choose any increment for the additional storage space. Check the
   ``qemu-img resize`` help for more information.

Resize the ``rootfs`` partition and filesystem
**********************************************

> These last two steps are very well described in the `Increase virtual disk size

Reviewer: You might want to rewrite this to refer directly to those two headings in the document:
``https://clearlinux.org/documentation/clear-linux/guides/maintenance/increase-virtual-disk-size#resize-the-partition-of-the-virtual-disk``  and  ``https://clearlinux.org/documentation/clear-linux/guides/maintenance/increase-virtual-disk-size#resize-the-filesytem``

Author: ok
